# Self-Assessment
 As a member of the COPD project (Group 8), my main role was to develop the database using Postgres/PGAdmin. At first, developing a database didn’t seem too bad, but it certainly came with its unique set of challenges. I was able to successfully launch a database that holds all of the project's datasets, in which our machine learning model can communicate directly to the database to push and pull information. While everyone in the group had their designated roles, we all contributed to other parts of the project as well. For instance, I also helped in the heatmap visualization, project presentation, data processing and cleaning. We would all come together and work as a group or if some of us needed specific help, we would create time to meet individually to resolve issues or make progress before the next group meeting. 
 
One of my greatest personal challenges outside of this project was learning to juggle life and class responsibilities. At the beginning of the project, I dealt with an unexpected loss of a loved one and trying to grieve while also completing my tasks was quite difficult. I overcame this by opening up to my team and they were all very understanding. Their emotional support allowed me to reorient myself and get back on track with my responsibilities. A challenge in the project was creating the heatmap needed for the visualization and pushing large datasets into the database. I overcame this by working tirelessly with the team and TA’s in order to reach our goals.

Our communication protocol mostly consisted of using slack and our group project channel. This is where we’d post screenshots of our progress, ask questions, decide on meeting times, etc. Deciding on meeting times was probably the most challenging aspect of working in this group, because we have some members who have a 3+ hour time difference and in some cases members were abroad with almost a 12 hour time difference. Sometimes members wouldn’t show up, or could not make the meetings, but we were all flexible and understanding of everyone’s responsibilities outside of the class. We would all contribute to fill them in and create time and space so they felt included in the progression of the project. Something that could be done differently in the future would probably use more methods of communication. I think if we used email along with slack, it would ensure secure team meetings. Having said that, the group is strong in time flexibility, a group of strong and resilient coders and fast learners. One tip I would give to future cohorts is the fact that establishing a sense of comradery will help make the projects easier and more fun! By the end of the project, everyone felt closer to one another and accomplishing what we had set out to do was that much better. 

COPD remains a threat to global public health and is the 4th leading cause of death in the United States. It has a negative impact on people's quality of life affecting daily activities and mental and emotional health. Therefore, we want to use the skills we learned from this bootcamp to create a model and visualization that can help predict the burden of COPD in US counties. Our Random Forest Regression model predicts that smoking alone is the highest risk factor of developing COPD. The information provided in our project can be useful for educational purposes and health care professionals who want to advocate for healthier lifestyles and reduce smoking habits in the United States.

If I had to grade myself, I would give myself an “A”, the rest of my team an “A”,  and our final project an “A”. We set goals, accomplished them, and made improvements to the current CDC COPD map available. 
